# computer abstractions and technology

**contents**

1.  [introduction](#introduction)
2.  [below your program](#below-your-program)
3.  [under the covers](#under-the-covers)
4.  [real stuff manufacturing pentium 4 chips](#real-stuff-manufacturing-pentium-4-chips)
5.  [fallacies and pitfalls](#fallacies-and-pitfalls)
6.  [conclusion](#conclusion)

**index**

1.  **desktop computer**  a computer designed for use by an individual, usually incorprating a graphics display, keyboard, and mouse

2.  **server** a computer used for running larger programs for multiple users often simultaneously and typically accessed only via a network.

3.  **supercomputer**  a class of computers with the highest performance and cost; they are configued as servers and typically cost millions of dollars.

4.  **terabyte**  originally 2^40 bytes, now 10^12 bytes

5. **embedded computer** a computer inside anotehr device used for running one predetermined application or collection of software.

6.  **acronym** a word constructed by taking the initial letters of a string of words, for example RAM is an acronym for random access, memory, and cpu is an acronym for central processing unit.

7.  **systems software** software that provides services that are commonly useful, including operating systems, compilers, and assemblers/

8.  **operating system**  supervising program that manages the resources of a computer for the benefit of the programs that run on that machine.

9.  **compiler** a program that translates high-level lanuage statements into assembly language statements.

10.  **binary digit**  one of the two numbers in base 2 that are the components of information.

11.  **assembler**  a program that translates a symbolic version of instructions into the binary version.

12.  **high-level programming language**  a portable language such as C, Fortran, or Java composed of words and algebraic notation that can be translated by a compiler into assembly language.
